README.md, before:

# Cricsheet CSV-ZIP File Processor

A Flask web application designed to process and transform large ZIP files containing cricket match data from Cricsheet's experimental section.

![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/Flask-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=flask&logoColor=white)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-F7DF1E?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=black)

## Overview

This application provides a user-friendly interface for processing large ZIP files containing cricket match data from [Cricsheet's experimental section](https://cricsheet.org/downloads/#experimental). It handles the extraction, transformation, and combination of multiple CSV files into a single, properly formatted output file.

### Key Features

- 📤 Drag-and-drop or click-to-upload interface
- ⚡ Batch processing for efficient handling of large ZIP files
- 📊 Real-time progress tracking with detailed logs
- 🔄 Automatic data type conversion and normalization
- 💾 Downloads processed data in a pipe-separated format

## How It Works

1. **File Upload**: Users upload a ZIP file containing cricket match CSV data
2. **Processing Pipeline**:
   - Extracts files from ZIP archive
   - Processes files in batches of 500 for memory efficiency
   - Normalizes data types (converts numeric fields, handles missing values)
   - Combines processed data into a single output file
3. **Progress Tracking**: Real-time updates show:
   - Current processing status
   - Number of files processed
   - Detailed logs of operations
4. **Download**: Processed file available for download upon completion

## Technical Architecture

### Frontend
- HTML5 + CSS3 for the user interface
- JavaScript for handling file uploads and progress tracking
- Server-sent events for real-time progress updates

### Backend
- Flask web framework
- Pandas for data processing
- Python's built-in zipfile module for archive handling
- Threading for non-blocking file processing

## Installation & Deployment

### Local Development

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Run the development server:
```bash
python app.py
```

### Cloud Deployment

The application can be deployed to various cloud platforms:

- **Render**
  - Build command: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
  - Start command: `gunicorn app:app`

- **Heroku**
  - Automatically detects Python buildpack
  - Uses included `Procfile`

- **Railway**
  - Uses `requirements.txt` for dependencies
  - Start command: `gunicorn app:app`

- **AWS Lambda**
  - Can be containerized using included Dockerfile
  - Deploy using AWS SAM or Serverless Framework

Choose your preferred platform and follow their Python application deployment guidelines.

## Author

Built by [Amar Harolikar](https://www.linkedin.com/in/amarharolikar/)

Explore 30+ open source AI tools for analytics, databases & automation at [tigzig.com](https://tigzig.com)

Commit message:

Add security note pointing to hardening checklist and live examples

README.md, after:

> [!NOTE]
> This repository is a working example of the concept described below. It may not yet include all recommended security hardening measures. My newer repositories now have robust security at both frontend and backend layers — rate limiting, SQL validation, concurrency controls, error sanitization, and more. You can use this repo to understand the core concept, but please apply security best practices before deploying to production. See my [80+ item Security Checklist](https://tigzig.com/security) and [live hardened examples](https://tigzig.com/security-examples) for reference.

# Cricsheet CSV-ZIP File Processor

A Flask web application designed to process and transform large ZIP files containing cricket match data from Cricsheet's experimental section.

![Flask](https://img.shields.io/badge/Flask-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=flask&logoColor=white)
![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-F7DF1E?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=black)

## Overview

This application provides a user-friendly interface for processing large ZIP files containing cricket match data from [Cricsheet's experimental section](https://cricsheet.org/downloads/#experimental). It handles the extraction, transformation, and combination of multiple CSV files into a single, properly formatted output file.

### Key Features

- 📤 Drag-and-drop or click-to-upload interface
- ⚡ Batch processing for efficient handling of large ZIP files
- 📊 Real-time progress tracking with detailed logs
- 🔄 Automatic data type conversion and normalization
- 💾 Downloads processed data in a pipe-separated format

## How It Works

1. **File Upload**: Users upload a ZIP file containing cricket match CSV data
2. **Processing Pipeline**:
   - Extracts files from ZIP archive
   - Processes files in batches of 500 for memory efficiency
   - Normalizes data types (converts numeric fields, handles missing values)
   - Combines processed data into a single output file
3. **Progress Tracking**: Real-time updates show:
   - Current processing status
   - Number of files processed
   - Detailed logs of operations
4. **Download**: Processed file available for download upon completion

## Technical Architecture

### Frontend
- HTML5 + CSS3 for the user interface
- JavaScript for handling file uploads and progress tracking
- Server-sent events for real-time progress updates

### Backend
- Flask web framework
- Pandas for data processing
- Python's built-in zipfile module for archive handling
- Threading for non-blocking file processing

## Installation & Deployment

### Local Development

1. Clone the repository
2. Install dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
3. Run the development server:
```bash
python app.py
```

### Cloud Deployment

The application can be deployed to various cloud platforms:

- **Render**
  - Build command: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
  - Start command: `gunicorn app:app`

- **Heroku**
  - Automatically detects Python buildpack
  - Uses included `Procfile`

- **Railway**
  - Uses `requirements.txt` for dependencies
  - Start command: `gunicorn app:app`

- **AWS Lambda**
  - Can be containerized using included Dockerfile
  - Deploy using AWS SAM or Serverless Framework

Choose your preferred platform and follow their Python application deployment guidelines.

## Author

Built by [Amar Harolikar](https://www.linkedin.com/in/amarharolikar/)

Explore 30+ open source AI tools for analytics, databases & automation at [tigzig.com](https://tigzig.com)
